Introduction and Goals
======================

This aim of this project is to create a decentralized chat based on the SOLID framework to allow users to always control their data and thus their privacy.

Requirements Overview
---------------------

**Contents.**

The whole project is based on the [solid specification](https://github.com/solid/solid-spec). And the basic requirements are the following ones:

* The system will be based on a decentralized architecture where data storage is separated from the app
* Users can store their chat data in their own PODs (Personal Object Data)
* The app will allow a user to share pictures, videos or other kinds of files with other friends through the chat
* A user can get notifications when some friend wants to chat with him
* Users can have groups of friends with whom they may want to chat
* It will be possible to have group chats where all members receive the messages

**Motivation.**

The idea of a decentralized chat is so important because nowdays privacy is something to take into account. If a user has complete access to its data with no intermediary, we can ensure that all of its information would not be compromised.

**Form.**

Short textual description, probably in tabular use-case format. If
requirements documents exist this overview should refer to these
documents.

Keep these excerpts as short as possible. Balance readability of this
document with potential redundancy w.r.t to requirements documents.

Quality Goals
-------------

**Contents.**

1. Highest level of decentralization possible
2. High accesibility
3. Low response times

**Motivation.**

You should know the quality goals of your most important stakeholders,
since they will influence fundamental architectural decisions. Make sure
to be very concrete about these qualities, avoid buzzwords. If you as an
architect do not know how the quality of your work will be judged …

**Form.**

A table with quality goals and concrete scenarios, ordered by priorities

Stakeholders
------------

**Contents.**

Explicit overview of stakeholders of the system, i.e. all person, roles
or organizations that

-   should know the architecture

-   have to be convinced of the architecture

-   have to work with the architecture or with code

-   need the documentation of the architecture for their work

-   have to come up with decisions about the system or its development

**Motivation.**

You should know all parties involved in development of the system or
affected by the system. Otherwise, you may get nasty surprises later in
the development process. These stakeholders determine the extent and the
level of detail of your work and its results.

**Form.**

Table with role names, person names, and their expectations with respect
to the architecture and its documentation.

| Role/Name   | Contact                   | Expectations              |
| ----------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| Role-1      | Contact-1                 | *&lt;Expectation-1*&gt;   |
| Role-2      | Contact-2                 | *&lt;Expectation-2*&gt;   |
